h1. mck_login

A public-side plugin for "Textpattern CMS":http://textpattern.com for handling public site-wide logins, sessions, password recovery and self-registering.

h2. Plugin tags

p. The plugin comes with number of public-side tags for handling user logins, new user registrations, password reset and password change forms.

* @<txp:mck_login />@
* @<txp:mck_login_if>@
* @<txp:mck_login_form />@
* @<txp:mck_register_form />@
* @<txp:mck_password_form />@
* @<txp:mck_reset_form />@
* @<txp:mck_login_bouncer />@
* @<txp:mck_login_token />@
* @<txp:mck_login_errors />@

p. Please see "./examples/":https://github.com/jools-r/mck_login/tree/main/examples directory for usage instructions and examples. The "plugin's source (mck_login.php) includes":https://github.com/jools-r/mck_login/blob/main/mck_login.php documentation (PHPdoc) and outlines all tag attributes and has embedded minimal inline-examples too. (All credits to "Jukka Svahn":https://github.com/gocom/mck_login/)

h2. Extending mck_login

p. The plugin comes with range of callback events and hooks that allow third-party plugins/developers to integrate with mck_login inner workings and/or to extend mck_login's feature set. Examples include adding anti-spam plugins or extra form validation.

* mck_login.reset_confirm
* mck_login.reset_confirmed
* mck_login.logout
* mck_login.login
* mck_login.invalid_login
* mck_login.logged_in
* mck_login.reset_form
* mck_login.reset
* mck_login.reset_sent
* mck_login.register_form
* mck_login.register
* mck_login.registered
* mck_login.login_form
* mck_login.password_form
* mck_login.save_password
* mck_login.password_saved

p. Hook into (register callbacks) to these events using the Textpattern @register_callback()@ function, following the same pattern used to hook into core callbacks when writing a Textpattern plugin.

p. See "/extending/abc_trap":https://github.com/jools-r/mck_login/blob/main/extending/abc_trap.php for an example plugin extension: abc_trap.php adds a hidden honeypot spam trap field to the registration form.

h2. Installing mck_login

p. Installing the plugin using the .txt file on the plugin's "GitHub Releases":https://github.com/jools-r/mck_login/releases page, as described in the "Textpattern documentation":https://docs.textpattern.com/administration/plugins-panel#uploading-plugins.

h2. History

Initially written by "Casalegno Marco":http://www.kreatore.it/, this plugin has been patched and then significantly reworked, rewritten and maintained by "Jukka Svahn":https://github.com/gocom. His account of this process follows:

bq.. This repo branches from "Casalegno Marco's":http://www.kreatore.it/ Textpattern plugin, "mck_login":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=37380. While this mck_login "fork" doesn't really share any code with the original code base, it is based on it, initially started as a simple patch.

The main idea [of mine] was to fix security issues the original release of mck_login had. Work started by removing the all of the code which was duplicated from Textpattern's core, and then fixing all the simple, yet critical, security issues.

After patching everything and taking advantage of core features, I concentrated to adding number of new features. The content and layout which once was hard-coded to the plugin, became changeable with tags and localization strings. No longer a form was a single tag, but set of tag. After that came security enchantments; brute force prevention, form tokens to prevent CSRF attacks, nonces and time-limited, eventually expiring forms. And finally, tools for extending the plugins in form of callbacks events and hooks.

p. Later fixes have been made by "gas-kirito":https://github.com/gas-kirito/mck_login and "jools-r":https://github.com/jools-r/mck_login.
